README.md, before:

<div align="center">

[![Downloads](https://pepy.tech/badge/tkinter-tooltip)](https://pepy.tech/project/tkinter-tooltip)
[![PyPI Latest Release](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/tkinter-tooltip.svg)](https://pypi.org/project/tkinter-tooltip/)
[![Tests](https://github.com/gnikit/tkinter-tooltip/actions/workflows/main.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/gnikit/tkinter-tooltip/actions/workflows/main.yml)
[![Documentation](https://github.com/gnikit/tkinter-tooltip/actions/workflows/docs.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/gnikit/tkinter-tooltip/actions/workflows/docs.yml)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/gnikit/tkinter-tooltip/graph/badge.svg?token=D911RWCBZ5)](https://codecov.io/gh/gnikit/tkinter-tooltip)
[![PyPI - License](https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/tkinter-tooltip)](https://github.com/gnikit/tkinter-tooltip/blob/master/LICENSE)
[![Code style: black](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg)](https://github.com/psf/black)
<!-- [![CodeFactor](https://www.codefactor.io/repository/github/gnikit/tkinter-tooltip/badge)](https://www.codefactor.io/repository/github/gnikit/tkinter-tooltip) -->

</div>

<div align="center">

[![GitHub Sponsor](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?style=social&label=Sponsor&message=%E2%9D%A4&logo=GitHub&color&link=%3Curl%3E)](https://github.com/sponsors/gnikit)
[![PyaPal](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?style=social&label=Donate&message=%E2%9D%A4&logo=Paypal&color&link=%3Curl%3E)](https://paypal.me/inikit)

</div>

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/gnikit/tkinter-tooltip/master/assets/images/tooltip_logo.svg" />
</p>

# tkinter-tooltip

## What this is

This is a simple yet fully customisable tooltip/pop-up implementation for
`tkinter` widgets. It is capable of fully integrating with custom `tkinter`
themes both light and dark ones.

![alt](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/gnikit/tkinter-tooltip/master/assets/images/header.png)

## Features

- normal tooltips
- show tooltip with `s` seconds `delay`
- tooltip tracks mouse cursor
- tooltip displays strings and string returning functions
- fully customisable, tooltip inherits underlying theme style

## Install

```shell
pip install tkinter-tooltip
```

## Examples

### Normal tooltips

By default the tooltip activates when entering and/or moving in the widget are
and deactivates when leaving and/or pressing any button.

![alt](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/gnikit/tkinter-tooltip/master/assets/images/tootil-simple.png)

```python
import tkinter as tk
import tkinter.ttk as ttk
from tktooltip import ToolTip

app = tk.Tk()
b = ttk.Button(app, text="Button")
b.pack()
ToolTip(b, msg="Hover info")
app.mainloop()
```

### Delayed tooltip

![alt](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/gnikit/tkinter-tooltip/master/assets/animations/tooltip-delayed.gif)

```python
import tkinter as tk
import tkinter.ttk as ttk
from tktooltip import ToolTip

app = tk.Tk()
b = ttk.Button(app, text="Button")
b.pack()
ToolTip(b, msg="Hover info", delay=2.0)   # True by default
app.mainloop()
```

### Tracking tooltip

Have the tooltip follow the mousse cursor around when moving.

![alt](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/gnikit/tkinter-tooltip/master/assets/animations/tooltip-tracking.gif)

```python
import tkinter as tk
import tkinter.ttk as ttk
from tktooltip import ToolTip

app = tk.Tk()
b = ttk.Button(app, text="Button")
b.pack()
ToolTip(b, msg="Hover info", follow=True)   # True by default
app.mainloop()
```

### Function as tooltip

Here the tooltip returns the value of `time.asctime()` which updates with every
movement. You can control the refresh rate of the `ToolTip` through the `refresh`
argument by default it is set to `1s`.

![alt](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/gnikit/tkinter-tooltip/master/assets/animations/tootip-function-refresh.gif)
![alt](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/gnikit/tkinter-tooltip/master/assets/animations/tootip-function.gif)

```python
import time
import tkinter as tk
import tkinter.ttk as ttk
from tktooltip import ToolTip

app = tk.Tk()
b = ttk.Button(app, text="Button")
b.pack()
# NOTE: pass the function itself not the return value
ToolTip(b, msg=time.asctime, delay=0)
app.mainloop()
```

### Themed tooltip

`tkinter-tooltip` is fully aware of the underlying theme (in this case a dark theme),
and can even be furher customised by passing `tk` styling arguments to the tooltip

![alt](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/gnikit/tkinter-tooltip/master/assets/animations/tootip-dark-theme.gif)

Style tooltip and underlying the button. If a full theme has been used then
the `ToolTip` will inherit the settings of the theme by default.

```python
import tkinter as tk
import tkinter.ttk as ttk
from tktooltip import ToolTip

app = tk.Tk()
s = ttk.Style()
s.configure("custom.TButton", foreground="#ffffff", background="#1c1c1c")
b = ttk.Button(app, text="Button", style="custom.TButton")
b.pack()
ToolTip(b, msg="Hover info", delay=0,
        parent_kwargs={"bg": "black", "padx": 5, "pady": 5},
        fg="#ffffff", bg="#1c1c1c", padx=10, pady=10)
app.mainloop()
```

## Contributing

You can find the instructions on how to contribute in this project in the
[CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) file.

## Acknowledgements

`tkinter-tooltip` is based on the original work performed by
[Tucker Beck](http://code.activestate.com/recipes/576688-tooltip-for-tkinter/)
licensed under an MIT License.

## License

[MIT](LICENSE) License

Commit message:

docs: add note about strange tooltip behaviour

README.md, after:

<div align="center">

[![Downloads](https://pepy.tech/badge/tkinter-tooltip)](https://pepy.tech/project/tkinter-tooltip)
[![PyPI Latest Release](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/tkinter-tooltip.svg)](https://pypi.org/project/tkinter-tooltip/)
[![Tests](https://github.com/gnikit/tkinter-tooltip/actions/workflows/main.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/gnikit/tkinter-tooltip/actions/workflows/main.yml)
[![Documentation](https://github.com/gnikit/tkinter-tooltip/actions/workflows/docs.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/gnikit/tkinter-tooltip/actions/workflows/docs.yml)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/gnikit/tkinter-tooltip/graph/badge.svg?token=D911RWCBZ5)](https://codecov.io/gh/gnikit/tkinter-tooltip)
[![PyPI - License](https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/tkinter-tooltip)](https://github.com/gnikit/tkinter-tooltip/blob/master/LICENSE)
[![Code style: black](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg)](https://github.com/psf/black)

<!-- [![CodeFactor](https://www.codefactor.io/repository/github/gnikit/tkinter-tooltip/badge)](https://www.codefactor.io/repository/github/gnikit/tkinter-tooltip) -->

</div>

<div align="center">

[![GitHub Sponsor](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?style=social&label=Sponsor&message=%E2%9D%A4&logo=GitHub&color&link=%3Curl%3E)](https://github.com/sponsors/gnikit)
[![PyaPal](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?style=social&label=Donate&message=%E2%9D%A4&logo=Paypal&color&link=%3Curl%3E)](https://paypal.me/inikit)

</div>

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/gnikit/tkinter-tooltip/master/assets/images/tooltip_logo.svg" />
</p>

# tkinter-tooltip

## What this is

This is a simple yet fully customisable tooltip/pop-up implementation for
`tkinter` widgets. It is capable of fully integrating with custom `tkinter`
themes both light and dark ones.

![alt](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/gnikit/tkinter-tooltip/master/assets/images/header.png)

## Features

- normal tooltips
- show tooltip with `s` seconds `delay`
- tooltip tracks mouse cursor
- tooltip displays strings and string returning functions
- fully customisable, tooltip inherits underlying theme style

## Install

```shell
pip install tkinter-tooltip
```

## Examples

### Normal tooltips

By default the tooltip activates when entering and/or moving in the widget are
and deactivates when leaving and/or pressing any button.

![alt](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/gnikit/tkinter-tooltip/master/assets/images/tootil-simple.png)

```python
import tkinter as tk
import tkinter.ttk as ttk
from tktooltip import ToolTip

app = tk.Tk()
b = ttk.Button(app, text="Button")
b.pack()
ToolTip(b, msg="Hover info")
app.mainloop()
```

### Delayed tooltip

![alt](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/gnikit/tkinter-tooltip/master/assets/animations/tooltip-delayed.gif)

```python
import tkinter as tk
import tkinter.ttk as ttk
from tktooltip import ToolTip

app = tk.Tk()
b = ttk.Button(app, text="Button")
b.pack()
ToolTip(b, msg="Hover info", delay=2.0)   # True by default
app.mainloop()
```

### Tracking tooltip

Have the tooltip follow the mousse cursor around when moving.

![alt](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/gnikit/tkinter-tooltip/master/assets/animations/tooltip-tracking.gif)

```python
import tkinter as tk
import tkinter.ttk as ttk
from tktooltip import ToolTip

app = tk.Tk()
b = ttk.Button(app, text="Button")
b.pack()
ToolTip(b, msg="Hover info", follow=True)   # True by default
app.mainloop()
```

### Function as tooltip

Here the tooltip returns the value of `time.asctime()` which updates with every
movement. You can control the refresh rate of the `ToolTip` through the `refresh`
argument by default it is set to `1s`.

![alt](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/gnikit/tkinter-tooltip/master/assets/animations/tootip-function-refresh.gif)
![alt](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/gnikit/tkinter-tooltip/master/assets/animations/tootip-function.gif)

```python
import time
import tkinter as tk
import tkinter.ttk as ttk
from tktooltip import ToolTip

app = tk.Tk()
b = ttk.Button(app, text="Button")
b.pack()
# NOTE: pass the function itself not the return value
ToolTip(b, msg=time.asctime, delay=0)
app.mainloop()
```

### Themed tooltip

`tkinter-tooltip` is fully aware of the underlying theme (in this case a dark theme),
and can even be furher customised by passing `tk` styling arguments to the tooltip

![alt](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/gnikit/tkinter-tooltip/master/assets/animations/tootip-dark-theme.gif)

Style tooltip and underlying the button. If a full theme has been used then
the `ToolTip` will inherit the settings of the theme by default.

```python
import tkinter as tk
import tkinter.ttk as ttk
from tktooltip import ToolTip

app = tk.Tk()
s = ttk.Style()
s.configure("custom.TButton", foreground="#ffffff", background="#1c1c1c")
b = ttk.Button(app, text="Button", style="custom.TButton")
b.pack()
ToolTip(b, msg="Hover info", delay=0,
        parent_kwargs={"bg": "black", "padx": 5, "pady": 5},
        fg="#ffffff", bg="#1c1c1c", padx=10, pady=10)
app.mainloop()
```

## Notes

- Certain options do not match great with each other, a good example is `follow`
  and `delay` using small x/y offsets. This can cause the tooltip to appear
  inside the widget. Hovering over the tooltip will cause it to disappear and
  reappear, in a new position, potentially again inside the widget.

## Contributing

You can find the instructions on how to contribute in this project in the
[CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) file.

## Acknowledgements

`tkinter-tooltip` is based on the original work performed by
[Tucker Beck](http://code.activestate.com/recipes/576688-tooltip-for-tkinter/)
licensed under an MIT License.

## License

[MIT](LICENSE) License
